# GEOG 371 Final Project Critique

### Link: https://seatgeek.com/tba/articles/where-do-nfl-fans-live-mapping-football-fandom-across-the-u-s/ 

For my final project in GEOG 371, I have decided to analyze a web map of the spread of NFL fans within the U.S. by state counties. This map is found on SeatGeek and was created by the user "naterattner". This map showed the most popular team in each county in every state based on user data while shopping on SeatGeek, which is a website where users can purchase tickets to events. One unique color from each of the 32 teams was used to represent the most popular team in each county. Based on this information, it can be inferred that the audience is NFL fans who are interested in understanding the spread of fans within the U.S. Along with that, this map can be useful not only for SeatGeek so they can better understand where concentrations of fanbases are located, but can also be used by retail stores, for example, to sell sports merchandise of the most popular team within that store's county. The basemap used was OpenStreetMap by Carto. The web map also allows for zooming capabilities as well as interactivity, where the viewer can click on a county, which gives them the most popular team, the name of the county, and the name of the state. In addition to this map, additional statistics were displayed on the webpage. Specifically, the results showed that the Dallas Cowboys had the most counties within the U.S. (392), the Seattle Seahawks had the greatest land area (~800,000 square miles), the Kansas City Chiefs had the most out of state counties with fans (199), and the San Francisco 49ers had the most counties in California (41).

Overall, I really loved this web map. Even though this was based off of a form of entertainment I am very interested in and actively follow, it was very fascinating to view a web map that can be created using the knowledge from this class. Even though some of the team colors were very similar to one another in some cases, a lot of the groupings were easy to distinguish and understand how much land each team covered. The interactive feature was a great addition especially since it revealed the name of the county once it was clicked, as the names of each county were not displayed on the map. Along with that, the basemap was not only one that I have worked with before, but it was useful in that it did not clash with the team colors and showed basic rather than detailed features, which were state and county boundaries.

The most notable issue with this map is that a legend is not included. While I do know all of the NFL teams as well as their colors, one who does not follow the NFL would not know which team owns which countries before clicking on each feature. Along with that, people who do not follow the NFL may be confused as to which team owns which county based on similar colors. For example, since red, orange, grey, and blue are used for more than one team and can be hard to distinguish which team is the most popular in one region, a person who doesn't follow the NFL may not be able to figure out which team is popular in that area. In addition to the legend, a scale bar and north arrow were not provided. An exact date for which the map was created and when the article was written was not found. However, since it was mentioned that this was before the 99th NFL season, which took place this last fall in 2018, it can be inferred that this was written in 2018. Because the projection for this map portrayed the earth as a flat surface, which was similar to or likely the Mercator projection, there was increasing distortion with increasing distance north of the Equator. Therefore, the shapes of the counties in northern states, especially Alaska, may not represent its true size. Another thing that the author could have improved on was adding more information to the displayed information upon clicking on a county. For example, the number of fans, or the total ticket sales during a given time period for that team, who cheer for the most popular team in that county could be displayed, as well as the total number of people living within that county. This also gives a better understanding of the amount of fans who cheer for each team, as this map doesn't necessarily take fan population into account since each county has different population numbers. 
